Ezra 7.10, that's the scripture we're discussing, and Ezra prepared his heart so he could
teach the regulations of Jehovah God.
Well, how does that happen?
Well, he did so through prayer, through his own meditation, through his personal study,
through observing other faithful and loyal servants of Jehovah God.
Well, this is the very same process that we use in order to teach at a Bible study.
I'd like to, though, at this time see how we can apply Ezra's words and example
when offering public prayers.
Now, at times, though, we're privileged to offer prayer,
a, maybe here at Bethel in congregation,
shepherding calls, those are given by brothers.
But, you know, there is another form of public prayer offered by often sisters,
and it's the prayer with a Bible student.
Now, for a moment, consider the prayers that a Bible student may be familiar with.
He probably never heard the name Jehovah in a prayer.
Probably he's heard some renderings of the our Father prayer, or has heard a minister,
a reader prayer from a prayer book.
But how different now the prayers are going to be from the teacher and those that may accompany
the teacher? Really, our prayers reflect our own relationship with Jehovah God
that we have developed over time.
Our prayers are influenced not only by our past experience in life,
but also by observing other loyal servants of Jehovah God, and listening to their prayers as well.
Let's see how that was the case with Ezra.
Now, the inside book says this, that Ezra lived during the time of Mardachai and Esther
when the decree went out for the king to exterminate the Jews throughout the Persian Empire.
There were many Jews that were living in Babylon, so this national crisis had an
indelible imprint on Ezra, strengthening his faith in Jehovah God, and that he would deliver his
people. As a result, Ezra witnessed the reaction of the people to this.
If you turn to Esther, chapter 4, verse 3, listen to what's recorded.
And in every province where the king's word and his decree reached, there was great morning
among the Jews, along with fasting and weeping and whaling. Many were lying down in sackcloth
and ashes. Now, public fasting was often accompanied by earnest supplication in Ezra,
would have realized that Esther was carrying on this fervent supplication to Jehovah God at that
time as well. And this all helped to galvanize Ezra's faith. See, he witnessed how Jehovah delivered
his people in this very seemingly impossible situation and how Jehovah protected his people
from the enemies and living through all of that helped to shape Ezra's inclination towards
prayer. See, he learned that prayer is powerful. And that's the way it's happened to all of us,
too, hasn't it? We've all been eyewitnesses to Jehovah's loving care for us and for his people,
and these experiences have shaped our communications with Jehovah God.
Now, there's something else that helped Ezra. The inside book says that he was an untiring
researcher with discernment and deciding between various readings of the copies of the law
existing then. So imagine the impression that was made on him while he was comparing the different
renderings of the prayers that he was copying, prayers from Moses, Hannah, David, and Daniel.
And as a result, this would have impressed upon him what kind of prayers Jehovah wanted to have
recorded. So from his long life experience observing the faith of others and prayers of others,
then he was able to meditate on now what about God's regulation is going to help my audience,
and what about his regulations and experience of these people can I use in my prayers in speaking
to Jehovah in their behalf. And thus, I'd helped him to be able to teach the law and to pray to
reach the hearts of the listeners. In preparing to say a prayer before large gathering of
worshipers, one brother explains this, he said, I consider in advance what to give thanks far,
what requests the brothers might have, and what petitions I could mention on their behalf.
I put my ideas, including expressions of praise in the right order in my mind,
before saying the public prayer, I say a silent prayer, asking for help to represent the brothers
in a dignified manner. Well, the same process is followed in offering a prayer at a Bible study.
What specific needs does a student have that we would feel comfortable addressing Jehovah
in their presence? Are they struggling with a bad habit? Maybe experiencing ridicule from
family or workmates or schoolmates? So, are the holidays or other celebrations a challenge for them?
What could we commend them for before Jehovah God? Have they taken a stand against holiday or
smoking or immorality? Are they speaking to others about what they're learning? What progress
are they making? Now, public prayers do not have to be long and elaborate. Generally,
short and meaningful is best. Let's see an example of when Ezra prayed in behalf of others
petitioning Jehovah for his guidance. We can go to Ezra chapter 8 and 21 and 23. He says,
then I proclaimed a fast there at the river Aheva to humble ourselves before our God, to seek
guidance from him, for our journey, for us and for our children, and for all our goods and 23.
So, we fasted and made requests of our God concerning this, and he listened to our
entreaty. No doubt Ezra recalled the fasting that accompanied the earnest petitions of Esther
years earlier. He sought guidance from Jehovah God in the assignment that he had at hand.
He was traveling with enormous riches on this occasion, and from a human perspective,
was effectively unarmed and defenseless. So, this was the first for him. He had never been down
this road before. He needed and prayed for God's guidance and protection. Well, the Bible's student
likewise is beginning to traverse the cramped road mentioned at Matthew 7 verse 14. And like Ezra,
he may feel I've never been down this road before, and he needs guidance. So, in our prayers,
we might ask Jehovah to give them more faith to trust in Jehovah God. We can specifically ask
Jehovah to empower the student as needed. Now, we're to caution here. If we are accompanying someone
on a Bible study, and we're asked to say one of the prayers, it'd be good for us to remember
that we don't have the teacher student relationship. The conductor has that relationship.
So, as a guest on the study, we wouldn't want our prayers to become too specific in connection
with the needs of the student. But our prayers at a Bible study can really have powerful,
motivating effect on them. One pioneer sister in Sierra Leone conducts 15 Bible studies each week.
And here's what she said, besides all the prayers offered when in the other features of the ministry
and on other occasions, I am able to pray to Jehovah 30 times a week on behalf of my Bible studies.
These prayers seem to have a beneficial effect and strong influence on the progress of the students.
So, when we're praying on behalf of others publicly, let us prepare our heart, like Ezra,
by giving careful thought to the content of our prayers. Let's consider the student's needs and
how we can articulate that in our petitions to Jehovah and then set the example of humility
by asking Jehovah to help us and ask for his forgiveness. Never underestimate the far-reaching
effects of our sincere prayers in behalf of others. Really, we become their advocate in our prayers.
And as a Bible student listens to our prayers, he will learn how to pray from his heart to Jehovah God
and he will learn as did Ezra that prayer is powerful.